1	1	Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of the elect of God and the acknowledging of the truth, which is according to godliness:
1	2	Unto the hope of life everlasting, which God, who lieth not, hath promised before the times of the world:
1	3	But hath in due times manifested his word in preaching, which is committed to me according to the commandment of God our Saviour:
1	4	To Titus, my beloved son according to the common faith, grace and peace, from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Saviour.
1	5	For this cause I left thee in Crete: that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting and shouldest ordain priests in every city, as I also appointed thee:
1	6	If any be without crime, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of riot or unruly.
1	7	For a bishop must be without crime, as the steward of God: not proud, not subject to anger, nor given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre:
1	8	But given to hospitality, gentle, sober, just, holy, continent:
1	9	Embracing that faithful word which is according to doctrine, that he may be able to exhort in sound doctrine and to convince the gainsayers.
1	10	For there are also many disobedient, vain talkers and seducers: especially they who are of the circumcision.
1	11	Who must be reproved, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre’s sake.
1	12	One of them a prophet of their own, said: The Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, slothful bellies.
1	13	This testimony is true. Wherefore, rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith:
1	14	Not giving heed to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn themselves away from the truth.
1	15	All things are clean to the clean: but to them that are defiled and to unbelievers, nothing is clean: but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
1	16	They profess that they know God: but in their works they deny him: being abominable and incredulous and to every good work reprobate.
2	1	But speak thou the things that become sound doctrine:
2	2	That the aged men be sober, chaste, prudent, sound in faith, in love, in patience.
2	3	The aged women, in like manner, in holy attire, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teaching well:
2	4	That they may teach the young women to be wise, to love their husbands, to love their children.
2	5	To be discreet, chaste, sober, having a care of the house, gentle, obedient to their husbands: that the word of God be not blasphemed.
2	6	Young men, in like manner, exhort that they be sober.
2	7	In all things shew thyself an example of good works, in doctrine, in integrity, in gravity,
2	8	The sound word that can not be blamed: that he who is on the contrary part may be afraid, having no evil to say of us.
2	9	Exhort servants to be obedient to their masters: in all things pleasing, not gainsaying:
2	10	Not defrauding, but in all things shewing good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.
2	11	For the grace of God our Saviour hath appeared to all men:
2	12	Instructing us, that, denying ungodliness and worldly desires, we should live soberly and justly and godly in this world,
2	13	Looking for the blessed hope and coming of the glory of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ.
2	14	Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity and might cleanse to himself a people acceptable, a pursuer of good works.
2	15	These things speak and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.
3	1	Admonish them to be subject to princes and powers, to obey at a word, to be ready to every good work.
3	2	To speak evil of no man, not to be litigious but gentle: shewing all mildness towards all men.
3	3	For we ourselves also were some time unwise, incredulous, erring, slaves to divers desires and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another.
3	4	But when the goodness and kindness of God our Saviour appeared:
3	5	Not by the works of justice which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us, by the laver of regeneration and renovation of the Holy Ghost.
3	6	Whom he hath poured forth upon us abundantly, through Jesus Christ our Saviour:
3	7	That, being justified by his grace, we may be heirs according to hope of life everlasting.
3	8	It is a faithful saying. And these things I will have thee affirm constantly, that they who believe in God may be careful to excel in good works. These things are good and profitable unto men.
3	9	But avoid foolish questions and genealogies and contentions and strivings about the law. For they are unprofitable and vain.
3	10	A man that is a heretic, after the first and second admonition, avoid:
3	11	Knowing that he that is such an one is subverted and sinneth, being condemned by his own judgment.
3	12	When I shall send to thee Artemas or Tychicus, make haste to come unto me to Nicopolis. For there I have determined to winter.
3	13	Send forward Zenas the lawyer and Apollo, with care that nothing be wanting to them.
3	14	And let our men also learn to excel in good works for necessary uses: that they be not unfruitful.
3	15	All that are with me salute thee. Salute them that love us in the faith. The grace of God be with you all. Amen.
